---
layout: post
title: Seminars
description: Ile-de-France seminars for May-June 2023
image:
---

## List of seminars in Ile-de-France: May-June 2023
Please consult the [online calendar](https://www.ile-de-france-planets.fr/calendar.html), as cancelations can occur!

---

### 25 May 2023, 14:00
**The role of planet formation in the composition of planetary bodies**<br />
Amy Bonsor (University of Cambridge)<br />
IPGP, 1 rue Jussieu 75005 Paris (Salle 310)
---

### 31 May 2023, 14:00
**TBD**<br />
Miki Nakajima (University of Rochester)<br />
IPGP, 1 rue Jussieu 75005 Paris (Salle 310)

---

### 13 June 2023, 15:00
**Ring moon morphology and libration measurements**<br />
Nicolas Rambaux (Observatoire de Paris, IMCEE)<br />
IPGP Planetary and Space Sciences, Bâtiment Lamarck B, 35 rue Hélène Brion, Paris

<b>Summary</b><br />
The Cassini-Huygens space mission made a series of observations of Saturn’s small satellites during its grand finale stage. This talk will discuss the shape analysis of the small Saturnian satellites in order to describe their global figure and large-scale topography, as well as to deduce fundamental quantities, gravity field, and amplitude of the diurnal libration by assuming that the bodies are homogeneous. These predicted librations are then compared with recent measurements obtained by astrometry to discuss the internal structure of such bodies.

<b>Connection details</b><br />
[Zoom link](https://u-paris.zoom.us/j/87673310489?pwd=VC9Ic1VhRVZmRkYwUzZwbktzU1c1QT09)<br />
Meeting ID: 876 7331 0489<br />
Passcode: 856642<br />

<b>In-person directions</b><br>
The IPGP Planetary and Space Sciences seminar series is held in the building Lamarck B that is part of the Université Paris Cité - Campus des Grands Moulins near the BnF (Bibliothèque Nationale de France). You do not need a badge to enter this building. You only need to go to 35 rue Hélène Brion, and once in the lobby of the main entrance, take the elevators on the right to the 5th floor. Exit the elevator and take the corridor to the right. The seminar room is number 522.

---
